# Predicting-Patient-Commitment-to-Their-Medical-Appointments-During-the-Pandemic
The material in this repo was used to conduct a study on predicting patient commitment to medical appointments during the Pandemic. The study aimed to identify factors influencing missed medical appointments using machine learning algorithms and logistic regression analysis. Data from the Ipsos Knowledge Panel Survey, collected during the COVID-19 pandemic, was used to train, and evaluate three machine learning models—Decision Tree, Random Forest, and XGBoost. After addressing data leakage, the models identified several important features related to general health, COVID-19-related concerns, and social determinants of health. Logistic regression analysis revealed five statistically significant variables affecting missed appointments, including physical activity, having a medical condition, psychological well-being, the likelihood of getting a COVID-19 vaccine for someone under the participant's care, and being a caregiver. The study provides valuable insights for healthcare providers and policymakers to design targeted interventions to reduce missed appointments and improve healthcare access. Recommendations include leveraging electronic medical records to build and train models, creating proactive plans for patients at risk of missing appointments, updating workflow and resource allocation, and continuously evaluating and adjusting the model. However, limitations such as different healthcare settings, non-representative data, and potential inaccuracy of predictive models should be considered. Future research should focus on validating the identified factors in larger and more diverse samples and examining the long-term effects of these factors on appointment adherence and overall healthcare outcomes.
